# Guui

A set of guardian-styled components and helpers

**Alpha package - under construction 🚧**

This package is still under heavy construction, please do not install this in applications intended for
use in production. The API may change significantly before it is out of alpha. If you enjoy working on shifting sands and wish to use this package in your application, please talk to the Platform team, or email dotcom.platform.

## Install

```bash
$ npm install @guardian/guui
```

```bash
$ yarn add @guardian/guui
```

## Usage

GUUI components are [REACT](https://www.google.com) components that use [EMOTION](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction) for writing their associated styles in JavaScript (css-in-js).

`guui` contains a library of reusable components that you can import into your own `React` application. It also contains a number of helpers for creating your own `guui` style components and rendering them on the client and the server.

### Prerequisites

When importing or creating a component with `guui` you must ensure `React` is available in your module. Why? because the JSX a component such as:

```js
<Headline/>
```

Will be transpiled to:

```js
React.createElement(Headline)
```

**How to can you ensure `React` is available?**

**Option 1:** Import your own `React` dependency.

```js
import React from 'react'
```

**Option 2:** Import the version of `React` exported by `guui`.

```js
import { React } from '@guardian/guui';
```

**Option 3:** Automatically load `React` instead of having to import or require it everywhere.

```js
plugins: [
    new webpack.ProvidePlugin({
        React: 'react'
    })
]
```

#### Importing a component from `guui`

```js
import { React } from '@guardian/guui';
import CloseButton from '@guardian/guui/components/Close';

export default function MyComponent() {
    return (
        <CloseButton
            foregroundcolor={'black'}
            backgroundcolor={'yellow'}
        >
            Click Me!
        </CloseButton>
    );
}
```

### Creating a component using `guui`

#### Stateless component

```js
import { React } from '@guardian/guui';

export default ({ headline }) => (
    <h1>headline</h1>
);
```

#### Stateful component

```js
import { React, Component } from '@guardian/guui';

export default class Headline extends Component {
    constructor(props: Props) {
        super(props);
    }

    render({ headline }) {
        return (
            <h1>headline</h1>
        );
    }
};
```

### Styling components

You can import [EMOTION](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction) from `guui` for writing your component's css-in-js. 

```js
import { styled } from '@guardian/guui';

const RedHeadline = styled('h1')({
    color: 'red'
});

export default ({ headline }) => (
    <RedHeadline>headline</RedHeadline>
);
```

### Server side rendering `guui` components

`guui` exports a function `renderToString` that can be used for rendering components on the server. 

On the server import `renderToString` and pass it the root component of the `React` app you wish to render:

```js
// Server.js
import { renderToString } from '@guardian/guui';

const { 
    html,   // html for the component as a string
    css,    // css styles generated by emotion as a string
    ids,    // An array of css ids as strings generated by emotion 
} = renderToString(<App />);
```

If server side rendering you can use `htmlTemplate.js` for as the template of a full html page. This template includes the following placeholders: 

`title`: used in the `<title>`
`vendor`: a path to your bundled vendor script
`bundle`: a path to your bundled script
`fonts`: a path to your `fonts.css`
`css`: a block of css styles as a string to be added in a `<style>` tag in the `<head>`.
`html`: a block of HTML as a string to inserted in the `<body>`
`data`: Any initial data required to hydrate your `React` app in the client.
`cssIDs`:  An array of css ids as strings generated by emotion used to hydrate the styles in the client `nonBlockingJS`: Non blocking inline javascript as string to be inserted in a `<script>` at the end of the `<body>`.

#### Hydrating the styles of your server side rendered `guui` components in the client

`guui` exports a function `hydrateCSS` that must be called on the client with the `ids` returned by `renderToString`, if you don't call it then emotion will reinsert all the rules. Please refer to [hydrate](https://github.com/emotion-js/emotion/blob/master/docs/ssr.md#hydrate) for further information.

```js
// Browser.js
import { hydrateCSS } from '@guardian/guui';

const { cssIDs } = window.gu.app;

hydrateCSS(cssIDs);
```

## Contribute

### Publish

From the root directory of the `dotcom-rendering` project, run:

```bash
$ make publish-guui
```

Note: if publishing fails, the guui directory will be left in a strange state. To correct this,
manually run:

```bash
$ make post-publish-guui
```